---
layout: page
title:  "Chapter 29 solutions"
tags: CLRS solution Linear Programming
categories: CLRS
---
## 29.1-1

We have:
$$n = m = 3,\quad
A =
\begin{pmatrix} 1 &  1 & -1 \\
               -1 & -1 &  1 \\
		1 & -2 &  2
\end{pmatrix},\quad
b = \begin{pmatrix} 7 \\ -7 \\ 4 \end{pmatrix},\quad
c = \begin{pmatrix} 2 \\ -3 \\ 3 \end{pmatrix}.$$

## 29.1-2

Here are three feasible solutions:

- $\overline x = (4, 4, 1)$ with objective value $-1$.
- $\overline x' = (4, 5, 2)$ with objective value $-1$.
- $\overline x'' = (0, 7, 0)$ with objective value $-21$.

## 29.1-3

We have:
$$\begin{align}
N &= \{1, 2, 3\},\\
B &= \{4, 5, 6\},\\
A &= \begin{pmatrix} 1&1&-1\\-1&-1&1\\1&-2&2\end{pmatrix},\\
b &= \begin{pmatrix}7&-7&4\end{pmatrix}^\mathrm{T},\\
c &= \begin{pmatrix}2&-3&3\end{pmatrix}^\mathrm{T},\\
v &= 0.
\end{align}$$

## 29.1-4

Standard form:

$$\begin{align}&\text{maximize}\quad -2x_1+2x_2-7x_3-x_4+x_3\\
&\text{subject to}\end{align}$$
$$\begin{align}
-x_1+x_2+x_4-x_5&\leq -7 \\
x_1-x_2-x_4+x_5&\leq 7 \\
-3x_1+3x_2-x_3&\leq -24 \\
 x_4-x_5&\leq 0 \\
 x_1,x_2,x_3,x_4,x_5 &\geq 0\end{align}$$

## 29.1-7

Suppose that $M$ is the optimal objective value then since (2, 1) is a feasible solution with objective value $1$ we must have $M\geq 1$.
Let $\overline x = (\overline x_1, \overline x_2) = \left(2(M+1), M+1\right)$ be a setting of variables. We can easily see that $\overline x$ satisfies all the constraints: $-2\overline x_1+\overline x_2 = -3(M+1) \leq -6 \leq -1$, $-\overline x_1-2\overline x_2=-4(M+1)\leq -8\leq -2$ and of course $\overline x_1,\overline x_2\geq 0$, hence $\overline x$ is a feasible solution. Moreover $\overline x$ has an objective value $M+1\geq M$ which gives us a contradiction since $M$ was supposed to be the optimal value, hence no such optimal value exists. We conclude that this linear program is unbounded.

## 29.1-8

In the worst case the variables have no nonnegativity constraints so we must use $2n$ variables and nonnegativity constaints for these variables. In the worst case we also have $m$ equality constraints so we must add $2m$ constraints. In total this gives us the upper bound of $2n$ variables and $2n + 2m$ constraints.

## 29.1-9

$$\begin{align}&\text{maximize}\quad x_1\\
&\text{subject to}\end{align}$$
$$\begin{align}
x_1 &\leq 1\\
x_1,x_2 &\geq 0\end{align}$$

The feasible region of this linear program is clearly not bounded since $(0, x_2)$ is a feasible solution for positive $x_2$ as big as we want. Nonetheless the objective value is clearly inferior to $1$ so the optimal objective value is finite.